
Good morning! Good afternoon! Good evening! Wherever you are, it's a great day to be a game developer.
Game development is probably the most multi-faceted of all the creative pursuits, as it combines multiple disciplines that span a great range of genres, traditions, storytelling techniques, art styles, musical styles, design and programming styles. Today we embrace game development both at the forefront of technical innovation and a love for the nostalgic, combinations of both and everything in between. It's truly an endeavor that encompasses enough variety to keep any creative type interested for a lifetime.

Hi! I'm Chad Dore.  My interest in video games started all the way back in the early 1970s, I can vividly remember the cacophony of flashing lights and electronically generated noises coming from at first pinball machines that filled arcades in shopping malls, bowling alleys, movie theaters, skating rinks, pretty much anywhere people went out to find entertainment in any city. Slowly the pinball machines were replaced by coin-operated video games, my first memories were games like Space Invaders and Asteroids followed by Pacman and Donkey Kong. I was hooked before I was barely even tall enough to reach the controls or properly see the screen.  

At home I remember the very first consoles.  Atari had an entire machine dedicated to a single game while connected to your television, it was called Video Pinball (show picture of the C-380)  Later on came the Atari 2600, the series of 8-bit home personal computers like the Atari 800XL and the Commodore 64, the Atari ST and Commodore Amiga, then eventually the takeover by the IBM PC and Apple trailing behind with the Macintosh.  Apple started by catering first to their own niche market, creative folks like and artists and musicians, and then later they took over the mobile market with the iPhone, creating a whole new gaming audience.  Let's not forget the tremendous influence of console giants like Nintendo, Sony and Microsoft that continue to innovate in that market to this day. Thinking back to that first Atari console I owned, which basically played the game of Breakout, I wonder how much planning and effort went into programming that chip in 8-bit assembly language.  Weeks, months maybe?  With the modern tools available today, I can write from scratch, something equivalent in about thirty minutes. This is not at all to brag but to bring me to the point of this video.  

This an exciting time especially for indie game developers or just creative folk in general.  I'd go as far as to call it a new Golden Age. In 2024, never before in history has there been at the fingertips of the game developer so many tools designed to bring your technical skill and creativity together to bring pretty 
much anything you can imagine to a screen, whether that's an array of high definition monitors, a tablet, a phone, or a VR headset.  

LibSGD is a tool that I personally feel has enormous potential. It's built on top of cutting edge graphics technology called WebGPU, and an implementation of it called Dawn that's being actively developed by software giant Google. LibSGD as well, is still in early development at the time of me recording this, which is Octobe r 2024.  I've been working with it for about six months and I'm extremely impressed by how capable it has become in such a short time, due to the efforts of its veteran programming wizard Mark Sibly.  If you've been around for a while you may be familiar with his work on the Blitz Basic series of game development tools, among others.

Game development is a long, arduous process, but if you're enjoying this process, it will never seem like work.  I hope that in these tutorials and examples I can assist you in learning how to use this marvelous tool, and in turn you can play a part in the next generation of great games, interactive storytelling and artistic expression through this wonderful electronic medium. Let's get started!
